1. Define the product in one clear sentence
Goal: You need a crisp one-liner you can reuse in resume, portfolio, and LinkedIn.

Do this:

Write this down (and tweak if you like):  
“An AI-powered tool that turns rough product ideas into structured PRDs, user stories, and acceptance criteria.”

That’s your north star.

2. Decide what the first version will do
Don’t build everything. Version 1 should be tiny but impressive.

For v1, your app will:

Input:

A text box where the user types a product idea (e.g., “An app that helps students manage homework.”)

Output (AI-generated):

Problem statement

Target users

Key features

User stories

Acceptance criteria

Later you can add: risks, metrics, edge cases, etc.—but not now.

3. Sketch the user flow (PM thinking)
You’re a PM, so think in flows, not code.

User flow v1:

User lands on a simple page with:

Title: “AI Product Requirements Generator”

Subtitle: “Turn your idea into a structured PRD.”

One big text box: “Describe your product idea…”

A button: “Generate PRD”

User clicks the button.

Backend sends the idea + a prompt to an LLM.

LLM returns a structured PRD.

Frontend displays it nicely (sections, headings).

Optional: “Copy as Markdown” button.

That’s it. Clean and focused.

4. Set up your Replit project
Step-by-step:

Go to Replit and create a new Repl.

Choose a stack you’re comfortable “vibe coding” in with Claude:

Easiest: Python + Flask or Node.js  + Express.

Name it something like: ai-prd-generator.

You now have:

A backend server file

A place to add frontend (HTML/CSS/JS)

A URL Replit will host for you

5. Design the prompt for the AI (the core of the product)
This is the heart of your app—the “product brain.”

Create a prompt template like:

You are an expert product manager.
Take the following product idea and generate a structured PRD.

Product idea:
{{user_idea}}

Output the PRD with the following sections:

Problem Statement

Target Users

Goals & Non-Goals

Key Features

User Stories (as bullet points)

Acceptance Criteria (as bullet points)

You’ll send this prompt + the user’s idea to the LLM API.

Use Claude, OpenAI, or any LLM you prefer—Claude Code can help you write the integration code.

6. Build the backend API
You’ll create one endpoint: /generate-prd.

Rough steps (you can have Claude Code write the actual code):

Backend does:

Receives a POST request with JSON: { idea: "..." }

Builds the full prompt using your template.

Calls the LLM API with that prompt.

Gets the response text.

Sends it back to the frontend as JSON: { prd: "..." }

Ask Claude Code:
“Write a Flask/Express endpoint called /generate-prd that takes a JSON body with idea and calls [chosen LLM] with this prompt: [paste prompt].”

Let it generate and refine until it works.

7. Build the frontend (simple but clean)
You don’t need anything fancy—just something that looks intentional.

Frontend pieces:

Elements:

Title + subtitle

Textarea for idea

“Generate PRD” button

Loading indicator (“Generating…”)

Output area with sections styled nicely

Logic:

On button click:

Disable button

Show “Generating…”

Send fetch('/generate-prd', { method: 'POST', body: JSON.stringify({ idea }) })

When response comes back:

Show the PRD text

Re-enable button

Ask Claude Code:
“Generate a simple HTML/CSS/JS frontend that calls /generate-prd and displays the result nicely.”

8. Make it feel like a real product (not a toy)
This is where you stand out as a PM.

Add:

Empty state text:  
“Describe your product idea in 3–5 sentences for best results.”

Helper examples:

“An app that helps remote teams track daily priorities.”

“A tool for teachers to assign and grade homework automatically.”

Small note:  
“AI-generated. Review and edit before sharing.”

This shows you understand UX and responsible AI.

9. Add a tiny bit of analytics (optional but powerful)
Even a simple log makes you look like a PM who cares about usage.

Log each request on the backend:

Timestamp

Idea length

Maybe a random session ID

You don’t need a full dashboard—just show in your case study that you thought about tracking.

10. Polish for portfolio and bragging rights
Once it works end-to-end:

Do this:

Give it a name:

“SpecSmith”

“PRD Genie”

“Idea → PRD”

Add a tiny logo or text logo.

Write a short “About” section on the page:

What it does

Who it’s for (PMs, founders, students)

How to use it

Now it feels like a product, not a demo.

11. Document it like a PM case study
This is where you turn “I built a thing” into “I’m an AI PM.”

Create a Notion page or PDF with:

Problem:  
PMs and founders struggle to turn fuzzy ideas into structured PRDs quickly.

Users:  
Early-stage founders, junior PMs, students.

Solution:  
AI tool that generates PRDs from natural language ideas.

Scope of v1:  
One input, one output, fixed structure.

Architecture:  
Replit-hosted web app + backend + LLM API.

Prompt design:  
Show your prompt and how you iterated.

Limitations & next steps:

No collaboration yet

No editing inside the tool

Future: save PRDs, export to Notion/Jira, multi-language, etc.